More Ideas
==========

More ideas to help recover from burnout
---------------------------------------

### Acknowledge your feelings.

How are you feeling? It is valid. Share your feelings with your support
network. This helps build *resilience*. Recognize your state in the
*exhaustion funnel* and how that will impact your decisions.

### Build your identity.

You are more than your job. You are more than the contributions that you
make to open source projects. Who are you?

Understanding who you are and what you value can help keep you afloat
when traumatic events like a company layoff occur. If your identity is
derived from your job, losing your job can leave you feeling like you
have no meaning or value. Companies fail all the time. More startups
close than make it to a finish line. Avoid tying your mental health to
the success of something outside of your control.

### Fuel up

Know yourself. Know what energizes or calms you. Whether it's reading,
non-technical activity time, being off in a forest with the greenery, or
something else. Monitor your "fuel" levels and recognize when you need
to take a break. Talk to your Support network and ask them to give you
external signals.

#### A few ways to fuel up at home & work

##### Take micro-breaks and play

It can help to take some time for micro-breaks and play. It sounds a bit
unconventional to say "play," but it can be a helpful step in breaking
the burnout cycle. Micro-breaks can be helpful by taking the step back
from the work and getting your mind off of whatever is causing the
burnout. Micro-breaks come in a variety of forms:

-   Getting up from the desk/cube and taking 15 minutes to walk around
    the office, get outside, and get some air/sunshine
-   Grab a colleague and talk about anything other than the task(s) at
    hand. This will take practice, but can be beneficial in ways other
    than taking a break--it may open doors to move to a position that
    can be less stressful
-   Get a pair of baseball gloves, or a frisbee, go out into the parking
    lot (if available, if not, a green space), and toss the ball/frisbee
    around for a few minutes.

###### A note on micro-breaks:

If it's not possible to take these sorts of breaks, do your best to not
take work home, if at all possible. The expectation that you have to
work all the time, even at home, isn't realistic and can create feelings
of guilt when not engaged in work. If this is the case for you, enlist
the help of someone in your support community--a significant other,
family member, peer or friend to help keep you accountable to not spend
all of your time working and send you signals (or blatantly tell you)
when work has become an unhealthy priority. When possible, take the time
at home to enjoy your home, and play